Aggregations in Big Data Pipelines.
After this video you will
be able to compare and
select the aggregation operation that
you require to solve your problem.
Explain how you can use aggregations to
compact your dataset and reduce volume.
That is in many cases.
And design complex operations in your
pipeline, using a series of aggregations.
Aggregation is any operation on a data set
that performs a specific transformation,
taking all the related data
elements into consideration.
Let's say we have a bunch of stars
which are of different colors.
Different colors denote diversity or
variety in the data.
To keep things simple, we will use
letter 'f' to denote a transformation.
In the following slides,
we will see examples of how 'f' can take
the shape of different transformations.
If we apply a transformation that does
something using the information of
all the stars here,
we are performing an aggregation.
Loosely speaking, we can say
that applying a transformation 'f'
that takes all the elements of data
as input is called 'aggregation'.
One of the simplest aggregations is
summation over all the data elements.
In this case,
let's say every star counted as 1.
Summing over all the stars gives 14,
which is the summation of 3 stars for
yellow,
5 stars for green, and
6 stars for color pink.
Another aggregation that you could perform
is summation of individual star colors,
that is, grouping the sums by color.
So, If each star is a 1,
adding each group will result in 3 for
yellow stars, 5 for green stars,
and 6 for pink stars.
In this case,
the aggregation function 'f' will output
3 tuples of star colors and counts.
In a sales scenario, each color could
denote a different product type.
And the number 1 could be replaced
by revenue generated by a product
in each city the product is sold.
In fact,
we will keep coming back to this analogy.
You can also perform average
over items of similar kind,
such as sums grouped by color.
Continuing the example earlier,
you can calculate average revenue per
product type using this aggregation.
Other simple yet useful aggregational
operations to help you extract meaning
from large data sets are maximum,
minimum, and standard deviation.
Remember, you can always perform
aggregation as a series of operations,
such as maximum of the sums per product.
That is, summation followed by maximum.
If you first sum sales for
each city, that is for
each product,
then you can take the maximum of it
by applying maximum function to
the result of the summation function.
In this case, you get the product,
which has maximum sales in the country.
Aggregation over Boolean data
sets that can have true-false or
one-zero values could be a complex mixture
of AND, OR, and NOT logical operations.
A lot of problems become easy
to manipulate using sets.
Because sets don't allow duplicate values.
Depending on your application,
this could be very useful.
For example, to count the number
of products from a sales table,
you can simply take all
the sales tables and create sets
of these products in those tables,
and take a union of these sets.
To summarize, by choosing the right
aggregation, you can generate compact and
meaningful insights that enable faster and
effective decision making in business.
You will find that in most cases,
aggregation results in
smaller output data sets.
Hence, aggregation is an important tool
set to keep in pocket when dealing with
large data sets, and big data pipelines.